my name is Sophie Darlington and I'm a
wildlife camera woman I've been
interested in Natural History since I
was a little girl I used to spend hours
looking at seals on the rocks and I
loved all of the tarkir ringer bright
water so all the otters seals give me
all of that you know but when I got to
18 I read a book called the tree when
man was born by Peter Marcus and then
it's an incredible book about a fig and
I went I want to see them I'm going to
go see that tree and sort of one of
those moments
my stepfather being a pilot I've got a
cheap ticket if I went and that's where
I'm at the BBC Duncan I saw what they
did and suddenly everything kinda went
jump into place that's what I want to do
through just sort of constant bugging of
people and writing I went back to Africa
and got a job with hugo van malik he is
one of the world's best filmmakers or
was and i was lucky enough to become his
assistant and he trained me
every time I find out I'm filming lions
I get excited because I've always
learned something new about them and
because they that you know the way they
are set up their social nosov every
single time and I never get bored
watching lines even when they're asleep
there's always something to watch it
might be just a tail flicking in the
grass but it's they're riveting when
you're filming any animal and you spend
any amount of time with an animal you
have to in order to I think to film it
properly you have to sort of try and
think as it thinks and therefore it's
really hard not to engage with them
you're sitting there and you're kind of
anticipating everything in order to get
the best material but also to put
yourself in the position of being the
best representation you know you're
trying to portray this animal truly and
so you're putting yourself into their
headspace so you definitely become
attached I think the most memorable
moment I had was on another production
many moons ago and I was filming male
lions and we worked with this coalition
of male lions there were five and five
adult male lines together is quite
something that was big and they decided
to run off after something and I was
driving with them and I was self driving
so I have my own car and it's missing
half its side so you can film properly
so I'm driving along and I'd suddenly
look out the window and there were all
of these male lions running next to me
and it was like I really felt like I was
one of the lines it was one of the most
amazing moments because it was it was a
real sort of silver in the hair was
going
they were roaring because my car was
right there just just the hairs on my
arms were just beautiful moment and I
didn't film it because I was driving
with them and often the most beautiful
moments you don't get to film you just
have to keep them up there
think about lines is everybody go to old
lines there's millions of lines aren't
there no there are millions of lines
it's only like 20,000 lines left and
after and the numbers are going down so
rapidly every good film about lines one
there's loads more stories to tell about
lines and two is that we've got to keep
awareness going but these animals might
not be around much longer if we continue
to encroach into their habitat we're all
after the prime real estate we want the
same land and so it is a problem it's
going to get worse and worse and I only
hope that the areas that have been set
aside for them continue to be set aside
for them and that that we can get the
communities around the parks working
with people to try and you know you know
to try and work with them as opposed to
against them I'm I filmed some amazing
hunts in my time and it's a wildlife
filmmaking isn't all about the hunting
although a lot of things that tend to
get onto the screen can be hunting you
know it's that big moment I love seeing
the little moments - whether it's the
play but the hunting is fantastic but
they hunt you know the variety and no
one hunts the same as well and if you've
got a huge bunch of lions hunting
together it's very different from one
lion or three lines and so every time
you film a hunt it's different it's a
long time to be away but it's um you
automatically do it because you want to
do it on you it's your choice and I
wouldn't do anything else in the world
it's the best job in the world because
you but only if you like going to really
remote places pushing heaps of luggage
through thousands of airports sitting
for years doing absolutely nothing not
seeing your family and friends spending
hours cramped in aeroplanes as airplanes
ever get smaller and smaller and but
then it's worth it for those moments